Previously on Elementary:
My name's Michael.
HOLMES:A man approached me
at a meeting yesterday.
Apparently,
I helped him once
when I described how integral
my work was to maintaining
my sobriety.
There's this girl I know
from the program.
I'm worried about her.
You want me to look for her?
I thought it might help you to.
It's like there's...
nothing I can do
to get his attention.
I need to get louder.
I'm going to make sure
my friend hears me.
This man caught me
in a moment of weakness.
I am not going to let him
take another life.
It's not the work that
motivates you to stay clean.
Like, when you
kick heroin,
you wonder if you'll ever
have that feeling again.
That itch that you
can't wait to scratch.
That's what those women were
for me.
(over phone):
I've already left New York.
I'm going to go away
for a while, but...
I'll be back.
♪ ♪
(music playing in Spanish)
Good news, Watson.
You can clear all this up.
You solved it?
The pilot was murdered.
The crash was not caused
by operator error.
The FAA owes me an apology.
Or at least reimbursement
for hauling all this up here.
So, what was the
breakthrough?
Did you find the killer's
parachute?
Nope.
Our theory was wrong.
No one survived
the crash.
Not Andy Donovan,
the right-wing extremist pilot,
and not Gio Gutierrez,
the man who
stabbed him to death.
Is this just confusing because
I haven't had my coffee yet?
Donovan was stabbed.
I was right about that.
The FAA's contention
that the crash caused
the puncture wounds
to his chest
was always absurd--
too much blood in the cockpit.
But there's a reason
you couldn't find
the murder weapon
in all of this wreckage.
It's at the bottom
of the Atlantic.
And you think this guy did it?
Gio Gutierrez
was a sociology professor.
I saw a news bulletin
last night.
A Good Samaritan
found his wallet
washed up on the beach.
Tried to return it,
but Mr. Gutierrez
was nowhere to be found.
Turns out he hasn't been seen
since last Friday.
The day of the crash.
But why would he have been
in a helicopter with...
Gutierrez was a Communist,
Watson.
He identified as such
on social media.
Are you really not
seeing the connection?
Even with the musical clue?
It's a Chilean classic,
recently reappropriated
as a tribute
to General Augusto Pinochet.
Helicopter rides were
Pinochet's preferred method
of executing Communists.
His Caravana de la Muerte
would drop dissidents
from great heights.
Gutierrez was once threatened
with the Pinochet treatment
in an e-mail.
The account was private,
but the IP address...
Was Donovan's.
So Gutierrez
either jumps
or is thrown out
of the helicopter.
Donovan bleeds out
before he can
make a safe landing,
and crashes.
Thus completing the first
Nazi-Communist double murder
since World War Two.
Case closed.
(music stops)
(sighing):
Okay.
Well, are you gonna help me
clean this up?
I'm overdue to attend a meeting.
(siren approaching)
(indistinct chatter)
No, I haven't touched a thing.
Anybody else been in here?
Sir, you need to get back.
HOLMES: No, I'm a
consulting detective.
This is a crime scene.
It's off limits.
If you call Captain Gregson
at the 11th Precinct...
Hey. It's okay.
I know him.
Thank you.
You were saying?
They use this room for
support group meetings.
No security cameras
down here or upstairs.
First guy who showed up,
he found the body
and called it in.
Did you check with
the staff upstairs?
Any witnesses?
Sounds like the perp
got in and out
without anyone
seeing him.
Actually, his entire purpose
was to be seen.
By me.
I know who did this.
♪ ♪
Rachel Garner.
Would've been 28 on Friday.
Wallet, keys and cell phone
are all here.
She's fully accessorized.
Nothing obvious missing
from her outfit.
If I had to guess, he did not
take a trophy this time.
He put himself
in our crosshairs for a reason.
But he doesn't want
to make it too easy for us
to be able to tie him
to this woman.
That would defeat the purpose.
Still trying
to contact the family,
but I did get
a hold of someone
under her emergency
contact list.
Ms. Garner was a junior analyst
at a hedge fund downtown.
Mills Blakney Capital.
She lived alone in Midtown.
So, high-security
building?
Yeah, we're gonna
pull their tapes,
but it's probably
a safe bet
that he scooped her up
somewhere else.
WATSON: Hmm. She was dressed
for a night out.
GREGSON: Yeah, he probably
picked her up in a bar.
MLI is putting time of death
around midnight.
WATSON:
CSU find anything?
No. No prints.
None on the chair.
It was wiped down.
No signs of a struggle,
either, so I don't think
this is where he killed her.
I think this is just
where he left her.
We got nothing.
We have Baquacil.
What's that?
It's a chemical,
uh, used for sanitizing
swimming pools.
It's not as common
as chlorine or salt, but, uh,
there's a faint odor
of it in her hair.
So she went swimming yesterday.
That's about all we got to go on
unless we find someone who
saw him here last night.
There won't be
any witnesses.
He's too careful
for that.
And it's easy to just park
in the back lot,
and he could've dragged her
in here.
Lock on the door
has been broken for weeks.
How do you know that?
You talk to the staff?
No. This is where I most often
attend meetings.
It's where I met Michael.
It's why he chose this place.
OFFICER:
Captain.
FBI just got here.
They're looking for you.
Were you ever gonna call us?
We gotta hear all the news
on the radio?
Check with your
office, Kim.
I put a call in
the minute I heard.
I guess we got
our signals crossed.
Ms. Watson.
Special Agent Mallick.
Sorry to see you again
under these circumstances.
And you must be the partner,
back from Maine or wherever.
Vermont, actually.
Sherlock Holmes.
So you're covering the
Michael Rowan investigation
for the Bureau.
More like "taking point."
Your guy's killed
in three states,
which makes him
the Bureau's responsibility.
Your people have any idea
he was back in town?
No. What about you?
You were gonna post
surveillance units
at his office and his home?
We did. Got nothing.
There was no noise
online, either.
No cellular activity,
no e-mails.
How would you know that?
You're familiar with
the hacker collective, Everyone?
So are we.
Listen-- don't do that.
Don't even joke about using
extrajudicial methods
on this case.
We're gonna close it clean
and make it stick.
We know he's back now,
and we're gonna find him.
That's something
the Bureau's damn good at.
Oh, good, because by the time
you locate him,
I'll have a case
you can hang him with.
Something I'm good at.
GREGSON: That's my whole point.
Why not reach out to us
before you make that decision?
MALLICK:
I don't know--
maybe because
it's my decision to make.
Doesn't sound like the captain's
making friends in there.
I'm not surprised.
Agent Mallick does not exactly
play well with others.
Doesn't always
follow through, either.
Feds were supposed to be
watching Michael's home
and office round the clock,
but they scaled back
hours last month.
Guess they figured
he was dormant,
surveillance
was expensive...
I doubt they missed anything.
Their penny-pinching cut a hole
in the net over a serial killer.
That doesn't bother you?
It does.
I just don't think Michael
came back to the city
before yesterday.
I've spent a lot of time trying
to get in this guy's head.
He came home to do exactly this.
The hell?
Joan Watson?
These are for you.
And, uh, I hope it's okay
to do this here.
♪ Private eyes,
they're watching you ♪
♪ They see your every move... ♪
BELL:
Buddy, that's okay.
You don't need to finish.
Who sent you?
I don't know.
I just go where my
boss tells me to.
Uh, are you sure
about the song?
I can take it down a
little if you want.
Yeah, I'm sure. Thanks.
You think it's from
Michael Rowan?
He's messing with us?
No. Look at the red balloons.
That's Everyone's logo.
"Our dear Watson,
William Bazemore withdrew
"$9,900 in cash
from his bank yesterday.
You remember him, don't you?"
I don't.
Who's William Bazemore?
He's a fashion designer that
Michael met in the program.
So, after Michael
disappeared, I spoke
to his family,
friends, colleagues.
Bazemore was one
of the only people
that stuck up for him.
He insisted we had
the wrong guy.
And the day Michael comes back,
this guy's ducking
under the ten-K limit
for withdrawals
that get reported to the IRS?
If Bazemore has been
floating money
to Michael this whole time,
it could explain how he's
been living off the grid
without using banks
or credit cards.
Be nice to go question him,
but the way this tip came in,
FBI's not gonna let us.
Well, then maybe we don't
tell them where we got the idea.
I distinctly
recall saying
I wasn't going
to help you, Miss Watson.
That's funny, 'cause we think
you love to help.
What is that supposed to mean?
Another woman was
strangled last night.
Well, I'm sorry to hear that.
But if you think Michael
is responsible, you're crazy.
Miss Watson told me
you don't think he's a killer.
No. I think you're harassing him
because you're prejudiced.
Michael and I are addicts.
Our community--
we try to support one another,
stick together.
But people like you
don't have it in you
to see past our histories.
It's disgusting.
Mr. Bazemore,
if Michael is innocent,
all he has to do is come forward
and alibi himself.
Thing is, we can't find him
anywhere.
As I told Miss Watson
the first time we spoke,
I haven't seen Michael
in almost a year.
Would you like to check
under the couch?
No, but we would like you
to explain a large withdrawal
that you made from
your checking account yesterday.
How do you know about that?
$9,900.
So, a hundred dollars more,
and your bank would
have had to file
a currency transaction report
with the government.
You don't have a warrant.
There's no way...
Was the money for Michael Rowan?
I want you to leave right now.
And I'll tell you what--
if I do see Michael,
I'm not going to call you.
He's killed 14 women.
Are we getting close
to a number
that'll actually
bother you?
You know what? I confess.
I did take out some money
yesterday.
It was for Alba,
my maid.
Her mother is very sick
back in Guatemala.
I wanted to make sure
that she could afford
to take some time off to go
down there and be with her.
And yes, I did stay
under $10,000 for tax purposes.
Here. Let's call her together,
and she can tell you herself.
And then you can get out
of my house.
I take it from the lethargy
of your approach
that things didn't go well
with William Bazemore.
No, they didn't.
It's not like Everyone
to let us down.
It was a good lead.
It just didn't
mean what they thought it would.
The withdrawal
was for Bazemore's maid.
That being said,
he's still
very defensive of Michael,
very loyal.
I think he would help him
if he had the chance.
I'd ask what kind of an imbecile
befriends a serial killer,
but we both know
the answer can be found
in the nearest mirror.
You okay?
No.
This woman's dead because of me.
Sherlock.
I spent an hour
with her mother today,
asking my questions.
She could barely get
the answers out.
I learned nothing but the depth
of my failure.
I should have realized sooner
what Michael really was.
I was a shadow of myself
when he first engaged me,
but now I am restored.
He's made a grave mistake
in returning.
(cell phone rings)
Hello?
Yeah, he's with me right now.
We'll be right there.
He's struck again?
No. We have to get
to the precinct right now.
I'm surprised
the FBI didn't insist
we do this
at Federal Plaza.
Yeah, well, they
aren't really
calling the shots at the moment.
He is.
You said he just showed up here?
About an hour ago.
I would've called you sooner,
but the Feds wanted
first crack at him.
He shut 'em down.
Said he would only talk to you.
You got better.
I can see it.
Good for you.
Right.
Let's, uh, begin at the
beginning, shall we?
How do you choose them?
We haven't seen each other
in a while.
I thought we could begin
with "hello."
Your victims-- have they done
something to offend you
or attract you,
or are they just easy prey?
Will... will any murder
give you your fix?
My fix?
Hmm.
That's how you
described it to me
that night I was in hospital.
Wait, you mean the night
I took you to the hospital?
You were pretty out of it.
Maybe you misunderstood.
No misunderstanding.
You said that killing
these women,
plotting their murders,
it helped you
maintain your sobriety.
Sherlock...
I came here because I saw
what happened in the news,
and I heard you
were looking for me.
And I thought
I should tell you--
I didn't kill Rachel Garner.
I know you've been confused
about me in the past,
so I thought it might help
hearing it from me.
You said you "heard"
we were looking for you.
From whom?
William Bazemore contacted you.
MICHAEL:
He's a good man.
He's just looking out
for a friend.
Let's keep our business
between us.
HOLMES:
Right. Business.
Business, business, business.
MICHAEL:
We've been over this.
People like us
need to look forward.
You have a new case.
Maybe I could help.
Help?
MICHAEL: Yeah, I mean, I used to
be a sounding board for you.
Thought I could be one again.
Help you figure out
who really did this.
Rachel Garner, she was strangled
using rubber tubing.
Very reminiscent of a
heroin addict tying off,
don't you think?
Sure, I could see that.
Yeah.
It's the same M.O. we saw
with Ashley Jenkins
and Maddie Williams.
Ms. Williams
is of particular interest
because her murder
can be tied
to all of these cases.
Polly Kenner. Lauren Crafton.
Nicole Tossani.
Mary Lewis.
Hmm.
I told you, I want to talk
about Rachel Garner.
I'll bet you do.
(chuckles quietly)
I thought you wanted to help.
I can't.
Not if you won't let me.
Well, before you go,
I'd like you to understand...
it's my turn to help you.
Whatever pain it is
that compels you
to take innocent lives,
I'm gonna put you out of it.
The last time we spoke,
I told you
I was going away for a while.
That's over now.
I'm home for good.
So, if you change your mind
about my offer, come see me.
Be like old times.
You pushed too hard.
You should've
kept him talking.
GREGSON:
No. Knocking him off balance
was the only shot we had.
He didn't come here
to hand us an easy win.
Why did he come here?
For a contact high.
He wants to feel the pursuit.
He thinks it's gonna
keep him sharp.
Well, then he's gonna
get what he wants.
(cell phone chiming)
I've got 40 people
on a detail,
and they're gonna be tailing him
everywhere he goes.
That's prudent, but he's not
going to make a mistake
anywhere that we can see him.
We need to be
observing him online.
We need to be inside his home
and his office,
places that he feels
most comfortable.
The last time we went
for a warrant,
the judge turned us down flat.
Said we didn't have enough
to connect him to the murders.
We still don't.
Well, Michael didn't like it
when Sherlock asked him
about William Bazemore.
He can be quite protective
of his friends.
I think it was more than that.
So, Bazemore bought this house
six years ago.
The photos are still
up on the listing.
There's a Jacuzzi
in the backyard.
Am I missing something?
Rachel Garner's hair smelled
like a pool-cleaning chemical,
Baquacil.
GREGSON:
Be nice to know
if that's what
Mr. Bazemore uses
in his hot tub.
WATSON: It would,
but when we left
his house today, he said he
never wanted to see us again,
so there's no way he's
gonna let us take a sample.
I'm confused.
Why did you go see him?
We wrote him off
as a dead end months ago.
Well, obviously, that was
a mistake on the FBI's part.
Michael admitted
they've been in touch.
BELL:
If Mr. Bazemore
won't talk,
maybe his neighbors will.
Joan and I
could go back tomorrow,
ask if anyone's
seen him with Michael
the last few months.
GREGSON:
Could be enough
to get warrants
to search
both guys' places.
You find anything...
You'll be the first to know.
MAN:
She's pretty.
BELL:
Have you seen her?
No, and I think
I'd remember.
I'm between
jobs right now.
Most days, I'm here
working on the car.
What about this man?
Oh, yeah, he's a...
he's a friend of William's.
Mitchell, right?
Michael.
Have you seen him
around recently?
Recently? No.
No, it's been years.
He used to come around a lot
after William's husband passed.
The wife and I thought maybe
he was the new boyfriend,
but then William told us
it wasn't like that.
Ray was William's husband.
They had drug problems,
and both got sober
around the same time
back in the '90s.
Couple years ago,
Ray started to slip.
William got him going
to meetings again,
and that's how
they met Michael.
What's this all about anyway?
Something happen to
him and that girl?
She was murdered
the other night.
He's a person of interest.
You're kidding me.
Well, all I can tell you is
he was very good to William.
Kept him on the straight and
narrow after Ray was gone.
But if I see him,
I promise I'll call 911.
How about you just
call me directly?
WATSON:
Before we go,
Mr. Dwyer,
how exactly
did William's husband die?
(keyless lock beeps)
Good first day back
at the office?
Yeah.
I mean, they didn't throw me
a party or anything,
but it was good
to see everyone.
You know, if you
wanted to apologize,
you could've just called.
Phone call
would've been simpler.
But I wanted to make sure
that we could talk
without anyone listening.
Right.
And I'm sure you would never
record this conversation.
I think you're a monster,
not an idiot.
I'm not recording you.
So, what's on your mind?
Just wanted to make sure you
knew what you were up against.
Me, the police department,
the FBI.
So, if you're thinking
of slipping away again...
I'm a free man.
I could get on a plane tomorrow,
and no one could stop me.
That's not what I want.
No, you want to be helpful.
'Cause you're a good person.
You shouldn't be insulting me.
What should I be doing?
Thanking me.
You're better now
because of me.
I'm better because I took
the time to get better.
I gave you that time.
You gave me nothing.
You are nothing.
The person who killed
Rachel Garner...
was angry.
I could tell
from the photos you showed me.
He hated her.
Why did he hate her?
You're the detective, Sherlock.
You go and figure that out.
Did you not get my texts?
No, my phone's been off.
I've been working.
Marcus and I think
we've got something.
We went to go talk to
William Bazemore's neighbor.
He confirmed
that Michael was friends
with William
and his husband, Ray,
until Ray killed himself.
They were all in
the program together.
And a suicide
is helpful to us why?
Well, that's just it.
I don't think it was a suicide.
Ray did not leave
a handwritten note.
He sent an e-mail saying
that he didn't think
he could stay sober,
and that he did not want
to drag William down with him.
You think Michael wrote it?
Strangled Ray,
faked the hanging?
Well, the neighbor
confirmed that Ray
fell off the wagon
a few months before he died.
And William
was Michael's friend.
And we know that Michael
has a funny way
of helping his friends
stay sober.
Well, that's intriguing,
but I have something
which requires
more immediate attention.
"YourSobriety.com"?
Yes, they sell...
fancy sobriety coins, like
the ones you get at meetings.
Michael bought one recently.
How do you know?
Because I went to see him.
The FBI followed him
to his office.
I slipped past their dragnet
and waited by his car
so we could talk.
Alone in a dark
parking garage.
I live to tell the tale.
And this made it worthwhile.
He had his five-year
anniversary while he was
in hiding, and he bought
one of these coins
to mark the occasion.
He also bought
this platinum-plated key chain
to hold it.
YourSobriety.com is the only
place that sells them.
You said this requires
more immediate attention?
We know that Michael kept
trophies of his victims,
but they were all gone
when you searched his apartment.
I thought it would be
worthwhile to find out
where he's been staying
the last few months.
I don't think
a company that sells
to anonymous people
in recovery
is gonna tell you where
they shipped those medallions.
I didn't ask them.
I asked Everyone.
They hate people like Michael
as much as they like
living in their mothers'
basements.
They collected the
appropriate data,
and they sent me
the most promising addresses.
Now, the company
has sold hundreds
of these key chains over
the last few months.
Everyone identified
two dozen addresses
where it was
difficult to verify
the identity
of the recipient.
As you can see,
I narrowed it down to one.
Richard Mosely.
Albany, New York. So you
think, this whole time,
he was just
a few hours away?
I e-mailed a photograph
of Michael to the superintendent
of the building
where Mr. Mosely resides,
and he said they
are one and the same.
So now what?
I called in an anonymous tip
to the NYPD
just before you arrived.
I said I saw Rachel Garner
in distress
outside Mr. Mosely's building on
the same night she disappeared.
I estimate we'll have
a warrant to search
Michael's little hideaway
within the hour.
JUDGE:
An anonymous tip?
Guy said he saw Rachel
Garner getting dragged
out of that
apartment by a man
who fits our suspect's
description.
And the witness
wouldn't identify himself.
That's pretty convenient.
Maybe he was afraid
of pissing off
a serial killer, Your Honor.
And maybe he's one
of your people.
You turned me down once before
when we had this guy
in our sights.
Now he's back,
and we got another body.
I follow the letter
of the law.
You don't throw
civil liberties out on a hunch.
I'm not keen to do it
on an anonymous tip, either.
Then consider the pattern.
He leaves town,
the killing stops.
He comes back,
and the same day, we have
our first body in months.
Now we know he's been staying
in Albany under a fake name.
Come on, Marilyn.
I thought you'd want to do
the right thing this time.
The request for electronic
surveillance is denied.
But I'm granting
you the right
to search the
Albany residence.
Good luck, Tom.
♪ ♪
I'll take the back.
OFFICER:
Check that bathroom.
All clear.
Bathroom clear.
All clear!
Looks like the decision to leave
was an impulsive one.
BELL:
Sherlock, Joan.
Get back here.
I think he was shopping
for new victims.
Yeah, we'll be here.
All right.
FBI's sending more people.
I told 'em we got 30 women
that need to be I.D.'d
and accounted for.
26, actually.
Looks like he followed
these four more than once.
They're wearing different
outfits on different days.
These are the ones
he seems most interested in.
Look.
This is one of the women
he followed on more
than one occasion.
Look at the wing mirror.
BELL:
It's his reflection. So what?
So that photograph was taken
at 11:00 p.m. Tuesday.
This past Tuesday?
How can you tell?
'Cause the bank sign
in the background
has the date, time
and temperature.
So Michael wasn't lying.
When Rachel Garner
was being strangled
and left at Saint Olaf's,
he was a hundred miles away.
He really didn't do it.
How sure are we this photo
wasn't tampered with?
Positive. That bank you
see in the background--
the camera over its ATM
caught Michael Rowan driving
away just after midnight.
So, what are we thinking?
He farmed the Garner murder out
to someone to confuse us?
Crossed our minds,
him working with an accomplice,
but it doesn't fit with his M.O.
HOLMES: Killing is part of
his mental health protocol.
It's like exercise-- can't ask
someone to do it for you.
That just leaves one option.
A copycat.
You do realize
what you're implying.
Some of these details
were never in the press.
The rubber tubing,
the connection to you
and your recovery meetings.
HOLMES: Correct.
Whoever committed this
murder was someone
with privileged knowledge
of the case.
Let's not mince words here.
You're talking about
one of your own.
Or one of yours.
GREGSON:
Whoever it was-- FBI,
NYPD, a victim's loved one
who got too much info--
we've got our work
cut out for us.
We're putting together a list.
Everyone who's touched
this case, who knew the details.
Killer's gotta be
in there somewhere.
You can have the names
of everyone in the Bureau
that's been briefed on the case.
Any help I can spare,
you got it.
But the federal focus
is going to stay
on Michael Rowan.
He's still the prize,
as far as I'm concerned.
Agreed.
With any luck, we'll soon have
a new front
from which to attack him.
What do you mean?
I might not be the only person
whose benefitted
from Michael's
unique brand of help.
My partner's looking into it
as we speak.
I don't understand.
Why would you
make me look
at these pictures
of my husband?
I'm sorry. I know
how painful this must be,
but I need you
to see the truth.
Which is what?
These ligature markings--
if you look carefully,
there are two distinct
patterns of bruising.
There's a thinner line,
and there's a thicker one
that almost covers it up.
I don't understand.
You've seen the news.
The people that we think
Michael killed were strangled.
I don't think I've ever met
someone so cruel.
You found out that
Ray hung himself,
and so you
thought that you
could blame Michael
for that, too?
The chief medical examiner
himself noted
there were odd signs
of dual lividity
in your husband's feet.
Now, he chalked it up
to Ray's shoes being too tight,
but I think it's proof
that Ray was hung
sometime after he was killed.
No. Michael wouldn't
have done that.
He...
There was a note.
Ray left a note.
He said he wasn't
strong enough...
In an e-mail.
Michael could have
forced him to write it,
or he could have
written it himself
after Ray was dead.
Why?
If I'm right,
Michael thought
he was a threat
to your sobriety,
so he decided
it would be better for you
to be alone
than to be a heroin addict.
Obviously, I did not know Ray.
You did.
So, did Ray killing himself
make any sense to you?
No.
But Michael, he, um...
he said that he had seen signs.
We didn't think that you lied
when you said you
believed Michael,
but please, if you can think
of anything
that might help us...
I need to be alone now.
Mr. Bazemore...
I'm not saying I won't help.
I just...
I need time to wrap
my head around this.
Not a fan of file folders?
Why put the truth in a drawer?
This way, I can feel mocked
by the sea of innocent people
that I thought capable
of murder.
It's humbling.
So you don't think anyone
in law enforcement
killed Rachel Garner.
Well, I wouldn't say that
definitively,
but everyone on our list
has been provisionally removed
from suspicion.
They lack obvious motive.
Nothing on social media?
No overlaps between
the victim and any
of these people?
I've looked at every detective
on every case
where Michael is a suspect.
All of the FBI agents
who joined the investigation.
All the CSU officers
who worked the murder scenes.
The victims' families.
Everyone on our list--
all a colossal waste of time.
Maybe we're doing this
backwards.
We thought that there
was gonna be an obvious link
between one of these people
and Rachel.
You want to focus on the victim,
emanate outwards?
I was gonna pay a visit
to her office,
look around,
talk to her friends there.
You want to come with?
There.
That'll let you
into Rachel's personal files,
but, uh, you know, I-I can't
let you into the firm's system
without authorization
from someone pretty high up.
Well, he's a police captain,
but I'm not in the mood
to argue.
The day Rachel was
killed, Tuesday,
did you notice anything
unusual going on with her?
No. Typical Raych.
She stayed till about 7:00.
She was a hard worker.
She was a good one.
Do you know who she was close to
here at the office?
We're gonna want
to talk to them.
EMPLOYEE: Yeah. I can
show you around.
Captain.
EMPLOYEE:
Dude.
If you want to look in the desk,
I would've gotten you
a spare key from HR.
I didn't break the lock.
It's been tampered with.
Someone didn't
want us to find
what she was keeping
in this drawer.
So, safe to assume
the culprit
couldn't just walk in
off the street, right?
No, we got security
all over the building.
Someone who works here
must have done that.
Are you authorized to at least
provide us
with a company directory?
GREGSON:
We're not gonna need one.
Daniel Cummings.
Did he work with
Rachel directly?
EMPLOYEE:
Yeah, probably.
Dan's a partner, so...
everyone works with him
eventually.
There's at least one name
I should have added
to the list this morning.
I just never thought...
Who's Daniel Cummings?
The judge that turned us down
for the warrant--
he's her husband.
(knock at door)
Make it snappy, Tom.
I have got a dinner at 8:00.
And you are?
Nauseated by you.
But call me Sherlock.
If you're looking for me
to sign off on another warrant,
I'm not liking your chances.
I'm not here
for a warrant, Marilyn.
I'm here because I know
you're the one
who killed Rachel Garner.
(scoffs) What?
Last night, we learned
that Michael Rowan
has an alibi
for her murder.
He's not responsible.
But his M.O.
was replicated to a T.
That means the killer
had specific knowledge
of his crimes.
You had all the details
laid out for you
in our first
warrant application.
That's how you knew
to leave the body in a place
where you knew
we'd connect the dots to him.
Why the hell would I...?
'Cause Rachel was sleeping
with your husband.
Don't bother denying it.
He didn't.
You've spoken with Dan?
We met with him at your house.
He admitted to breaking
into Rachel's desk
to remove some pictures
that she had
of the two of them together.
He then took us on a tour.
Even showed us your pool.
He told us you're allergic
to chlorine,
which is why you use Baquacil
to keep your pool clean.
That chemical was in Rachel
Garner's hair when we found her.
Dan told us Rachel usually
came over on Tuesday nights.
That's when you have
your Bar Association meetings.
Rachel had her own key.
She'd let herself in.
She'd sometimes go swimming
before Dan came home.
You found out about all of it,
so you killed her.
HOLMES:
When Michael Rowan
saw a picture
of Rachel's body, he said
that whoever killed her
hated her.
I don't know what
it was that he saw,
but it turns out he was right.
I don't know, Tom.
It sounds like a weak,
circumstantial case.
An affair.
Baquacil.
You think that's enough
to come after a judge?
Not yet.
But you've had
a long career on the bench.
You know what it's like
for the loved ones
of Michael Rowan's victims.
You know the pain
that they're in right now.
And you also know
that the murder you committed
is gonna muddy the waters
for anyone
trying to build a case
against that son of a bitch.
Marilyn,
I'm begging you,
don't do that to these families.
WATSON:
So, she's taking a plea?
HOLMES (over phone):
The D.A. himself graced us
with his presence
to sign the deal.
That's one less strangler
to deal with.
One to go.
I'll be home soon.
Okay. I'll see you then.
I told you
I didn't kill her.
(gasps, groans)
Been wanting to meet you
for a long time, Joan.
William Bazemore
called me this afternoon.
He, uh, said you
paid him a visit.
Said you thought
I'd killed Ray.
Which I did.
(gasps, groans)
William hung up on me,
then a couple hours later,
I got a call from a friend
in the program.
Said William had O.D.'d.
12 years sober.
That's what you took away
from him.
(yelps in pain)
(coughs)
MICHAEL:
Wow.
All this for me.
I'm almost flattered.
(groaning, panting)
MICHAEL:
It's over, Joan.
(doorknob jiggling)
(door rattling)
You're making this harder
than it needs to be.
(banging on door)
(grunts)
(groans)
(groans, pants)
♪ ♪
(panting)
(groans)
♪ ♪
WOMAN:
Good.
Your pupils are equal
and reactive.
The rest of your
neurological workup is normal.
And this hematoma
back here
will go down with ice.
You gonna order a
CT scan to eliminate
the possibility of
internal bleeding?
You know a lot about
concussion protocols.
But the good news is
your brain's just fine.
Your ribs, on the other hand...
The radiologist said
I had two fractured ribs.
You're a doctor.
You know there's not much
we can do.
They'll heal.
It'll just take time.
I can prescribe
Vicodin for the pain.
Hey.
Could you give us a moment?
When you're ready to go,
just let one
of the nurses know.
You all right?
Yeah.
Michael got it worse.
Can I ask how the FBI managed
to lose track of him?
He went to a restaurant
in Times Square,
got lost in the crowd.
Mallick says
she thought her people
could pick him up when he got
to his home or office.
He was bleeding profusely
when he left our home.
There was blood
traces headed north
towards
Greenpoint Avenue Station.
Has anyone been there?
We still don't know
his whereabouts.
The Feds
are finally back up
on his phones.
Well, the good thing
about him trying to kill me
is that we can get
all the warrants we want,
and there's plenty
to charge him with.
CSU is done
with your place.
Um, I've got
two officers downstairs.
Bailey and Walker.
Whenever you're ready to go,
they'll drive you home.
HOLMES: Actually,
we discussed it--
she's gonna go and stay
with her parents in Westchester
for a few nights.
Okay.
I'll go tell my guys.
Watson...
Sherlock.
If you say sorry,
I'm gonna break one
of your ribs.
Just find him.
Yeah. Pull 'em out of there
and call me back.
Another false alarm?
Yeah, some rookie from
Midtown South saw a guy
that looked like Rowan
outside Penn Station.
Obviously wasn't him.
You looking at Queens again?
Yeah, I've been looking
at how we're using our people.
I think stepped-up patrols near
his home and office are fine,
but these guys out in Flushing
and Douglaston--
maybe we get them on phones,
making calls to towns
on major bus lines,
cities with
international airports.
You think he got out
of the city?
It's been almost a day.
And he's done it before.
(cell phone rings)
Gregson.
MALLICK:
You can call off the dogs, Tom.
We found Michael Rowan.
Where?
(cell phone rings)
(sighs)
Captain?
GREGSON:
Rowan's dead.
Somebody beat him to death
and put him in the garbage.
What? Where?
Well, we don't know exactly.
His body just turned up
at a transfer station
that the Sanitation Department
uses out here in Hunts Point.
The Feds are in command
of the scene,
and they're determined
to treat this like any other
homicide case.
I'll come out immediately.
No.
That's what I'm
trying to tell you.
You can't.
I've just been informed
that Joan is gonna
have to surrender herself
to the FBI.
She's their prime suspect.
♪ ♪